Reindeer traditionally pull sleighs
and have a popular reputation for red, glowing noses.
But behind this folklore, there is some surprising truth –
an ingenious adaptation, which helps them survive the extremes.
Their noses are full of blood vessels.
These cool warm air down as it leaves the body
and warms cold air up as it comes in,
keeping the reindeer's brain constantly warm and active.
So, as the thermal camera proves,
reindeer's noses are actually red.
It's not just the nose of the reindeer which is extraordinary.
How they view their winter surroundings
through those large, characterful eyes is truly astonishing.
When it's bright and sunny like this,
my eyes struggle to cope with the amount of
UV light that's coming from the sun
and is bouncing back up off the snow.
If I was to spend too long here,
I'd eventually damage my eyes.
I could become snow-blind.
But reindeer, they see things differently.
Not only can they see in colour like I can,
they can also see in ultraviolet.
For us, it's difficult to make out detail
when the landscape is so white.
But with UV vision,
a reindeer can see things in much greater contrast.
They can see shapes and detail that we can't.
The lichen on the trees which they eat,
or animal urine in the snow, becomes more prominent.
In such a white, snowy world,
it certainly helps to have that extra insight.
Reindeer even have specially designed flexible hooves.
In the winter, their four toes can spread out wide
to act like snow shoes.
This means they can walk on bumpy ice without slipping.
However, on smooth ice
they can sometimes find their shoes
a little ill-suited.